He got up trembling; he had less than half a mind to fetch the lamp, and more than half a mind to pretend to, and go and hide behind the beer-barrel in the cellar and not come out again until all the dwarves had gone. Suddenly he found that the music and the singing had stopped and they were all looking at him with eyes shining in the dark.
'Where are you going?' said Gandlaf, in a tone that seemed to show that he guessed both halves of the hobbit's mind.
'What about a little light?' he said apologetically.
'We like the dark' all the dwarves said. 'Dark for dark business! There are many hours before dawn'.
'Of course' said Bilbo and sat down in a hurry. He missed the stool and sat in the fender, knocking the poker and shovel over with a crash.
'Hush!' said Bladorthin. 'Let Gandalf speak!' And this is how he began.
'Bladorthin, dwarves and Mr Baggins, we are met together in the house of our friend and fellow conspirator, this most excellent and audacious hobbit - may the hair on his toes never grow less! - all praise to his wine and ale! -' He paused for breath and for a polite remark from the hobbit, but the praise was quite lost on poor Bilbo Baggins, who was wagging his mouth in protest at being called audacious and worst of all 'fellow conspirator'; but no noise would come he was so upsettled. So he went on:
'We are met to discuss our plans, our ways means, policy and devices. We shall soon, before the break of day, start on our long journey, a journey from which some of us, or perhaps all of us (except our friend and counsellor, the ingenious wizard Bladorthin), may never return. It is a solemn moment. The object is, I take it, well known to us all. To the estimable Mr Baggins, and to one or two of the younger dwarves (I think I should be right in naming Kili and Fili, for instance), the exact situation at the moment may require a little brief explanation -'
This was Gandalf's style - he was an important dwarf -; in the end he would probably have gone on like this, without telling anybody anything that he didn't know already, until he was out of breath. But this time he was rudely interrupted. Poor Bilbo couldn't bear it any longer. At 'may never return' he began to feel a shriek coming up inside, and very soon after it burst out like the whistle of an engine coming out of a tunnel.
